# Reddit Clone

## Welcome to our Reddit Clone project!

This web application replicates the core functionalities of the popular social platform, Reddit. Engage in discussions, share content, and discover a community-driven experience.

## Features

- **User Authentication:** Create an account or log in securely to participate in the community.
- **Post Content:** Share links, text posts, and images to spark conversations.
- **Upvoting and Downvoting:** Express your opinion on posts and comments.
- **Comment Threads:** Engage in discussions by commenting on posts or replies.
- **Subreddit System:** Explore and create specialized communities based on interests.
- **Responsive Design:** Enjoy a seamless experience across devices.

## Getting Started

1. **Clone the Repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/arepaflipper/reddit-clone.git
   cd reddit-clone

2. **Install Dependencies:**
   ```bash
   yarn install
   ```

3. Install the prisma LSP for **Neovim**:
   ```bash
   :TSInstall prisma

### (0:11:12) Build the Navbar
visit the UI library `https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/button` to use the button component

Run:
```bash
npx shadcn-ui add button
```

The file `./src/lib/db.ts` ensures that while we're on local development
we won't install multiple prisma clients, but instead we use a cached one.

The file `./src/lib/utils.ts` are some definitions that would be annoying to type one by one.

The file `./src/app/layout.tsx` is a file generated by `next.js`, even if we delete it `next.js` will still generate it.

### (0:16:00) twMerge
it is a helper for tailwindcss to combine multiple classNames like:
```
my-2 mx-2 -> m-2 
```

### (0:23:00) container className
There are definitions in the `./tailwind.config.js` file. The `container` className is defined there.

### (0:51:55) import toast from shadcn-ui
Run the following command:

### (0:55:09) Press login button
This behaves different from the Joshua example. It should redirect to
`http://localhost:3000/api/auth/error` because we didn't provide the "toast" 
to be rendered anywhere on the page.

### (1:18:52) Authentication
The following helper:
```tsx
export const getAuthSession = () => getServerSession(authOptions)
```
It is going to be useful across the entire application and we can use this for example in the nav bar
by turning the Navbar into a server component into an asynchronous server component ,that means, that
we can now perform awaiting actions at the top level of the navbar, for example fetch the session data.

```bash
❯ npx shadcn-ui init
✔ Would you like to use TypeScript (recommended)? … no / yes
✔ Which style would you like to use? › Default
✔ Which color would you like to use as base color? › Stone
✔ Where is your global CSS file? … src/styles/globals.css
✔ Would you like to use CSS variables for colors? … no / yes
✔ Where is your tailwind.config.js located? … tailwind.config.js
✔ Configure the import alias for components: … src/components
✔ Configure the import alias for utils: … src/lib/utils.ts
✔ Are you using React Server Components? … no / yes
✔ Write configuration to components.json. Proceed? … yes

✔ Writing components.json...
✔ Initializing project...
✔ Installing dependencies...

Success! Project initialization completed.

npx shadcn-ui add toast
```

# Acknowledgements
Special thanks to Joshua Neske (@joshtriedcoding) for making the original project tutorial.
